Standard phrases - Native









GLOMERULI

SS0	No segmental sclerosis.
SS1	A few glomeruli have segmental sclerosis.
SS2	Several glomeruli have segmental sclerosis.

ISCH1	Some glomeruli show mild ischaemic-type capillary deflation.
ISCH2	Some glomeruli marked ischaemic-type capillary deflation with thickening of Bowman’s capsule.

MH0	No mesangial hypercellularity.
MH1
MH2
MH3

E0	No endocapillary hypercellularity.
E1	Several glomeruli have endocapillary hypercellularity.

FN0	No fibrinoid necrosis.
FNx	x glomeruli have fibrinoid necrosis.
CC0	No crescents.
CCx	x glomeruli have cellular crescents.


TUBULOINTERSTITIUM


I-IFTA1	There is a scarce atrophy-associated chronic inflammatory infiltrate.
I-IFTA2	There is a patchy atrophy-associated chronic inflammatory infiltrate. No tubulitis.

I0	No significant tubulointerstitial inflammatory infiltrate is present.
I1T	There is a patchy interstitial chronic inflammatory infiltrate with several foci of tubulitis.
I2T	There is a marked interstitial chronic inflammatory infiltrate with several foci of tubulitis.



















DRAFT....

The cause of the scarring is not evident.
The cause of the rise in creatinine is not evident.
There is severe arterial intimal thickening in keeping with hypertensive change. This may explain some of the dysfunction.
There is no evidence of an active glomerulonephritis or tubulointerstitial nephritis.
There is no evidence of a paraprotein-related disease.

There is tubulointerstitial scarring with focal global glomerulosclerosis, and without any obvious cause. Is there a family history of kidney disease ? Please consider genetic testing for autosomal dominant tubulointerstitial kidney disease and other potential genetic causes.



There is an interstitial aggregate of Tamm-Horsfall protein – please rule out urinary tract obstruction.

arterial fibrointimal thickening

There is a dilated venous structure – please rule out renal vein thrombosis
