
Standard phrases - Transplant


Coder can be CR, AS or NS

Consent can be PISV.8, TB or U

Date of biopsy must be format dd/mm/yyyy


A. LIGHT MICROSCOPY

C The sample consists of cortex only.

M The sample consists of medulla only.

CT The sample consists of connective tissue only.

CM The sample consists of cortex and medulla.

CCT The sample consists of cortex and connective tissue.

MCT The sample consists of medulla and connective tissue.

CMCT The sample consists of cortex, medulla and connective tissue.

CxMx There are x samples of cortex and x sample of medulla.

GLOMERULI

x Total number of glomeruli: x

GSx Number of globally sclerosed glomeruli: x

SSx_NOS x glomeruli show segmental sclerosis (NOS)

SSx_coll x glomeruli show segmental sclerosis (collapsing variant)

SSx_tip x glomeruli show segmental sclerosis (tip variant)

SS0 No segmental sclerosis is seen.

MM0 There is no increase in mesangial matrix.

MM1 There is a mild increase in mesangial matrix.

MM2 There is a moderate increase in mesangial matrix.

MM3 There is a marked increase in mesangial matrix.

MC0 There is no increase in mesangial cellularity.

MC1 There is a mild increase in mesangial cellularity.

MC2 There is a moderate increase in mesangial cellularity.

MC3 There is a marked increase in mesangial cellularity.

ISCH1 Some glomeruli show mild ischaemic-type capillary deflation.

ISCH2 Some glomeruli marked ischaemic-type capillary deflation with thickening of Bowman’s capsule.

G0 There is no glomerulitis.

G1 There is mild glomerulitis (g1).

G2 There is moderate glomerulitis (g2).

G3 There is severe glomerulitis (g3).

CG0 No capillary wall double contours are seen on light microscopy (cg0).

CG1 A few segmental capillary wall double contours are seen (cg1b).

CG2 Capillary wall double contours are seen affecting up to 50% of capillary walls (cg2).

CG3 Capillary wall double contours are seen affecting >50% of capillary walls (cg3).

TUBULOINTERSTITIUM

ATI1 There is mild acute tubular injury.

ATI2 There is severe acute tubular injury, with granular casts

ATI micro There acute tubular injury with tubular epithelial cell cytoplasmic microvacuolation.

Np1 Occasional tubules contain neutrophil casts.

Np2 Many tubules contain neutrophil casts.

 

IFTAxx Tubular atrophy/interstitial fibrosis (nearest 10%): xx%

CT1CI0 (ct1,ci0)

CTCI1 (ct1, ci1)

CTCI2 (ct2, ci2)

CTCI3 (ct3, ci3)

T0 Tubulitis is not present in >1 focus of non-severely atrophic tubules (t0).

T1 Mild tubulitis is present in >1 focus of non-severely atrophic tubules (t1).

T2 Moderate tubulitis is present in >1 focus of non-severely atrophic tubules (t2).

T3 Severe tubulitis is present in >1 focus of non-severely atrophic tubules (t3).

I0_I-IFTA0 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects <10% of non-scarred cortex and <10% of scarred cortex (i0,i-IFTA0).

I1_I-IFTA0 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 10-25% of non-scarred cortex and <10% of scarred cortex (i1, i-IFTA0).

I2_I-IFTA0 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 25-50% of non-scarred cortex and <10% of scarred cortex(i2, i-IFTA0).

I3_I-IFTA0 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects >50% of non-scarred cortex and <10% of scarred cortex(i3, i-IFTA0).

I0_I-IFTA1 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects <10% of non-scarred cortex and 10-25% of scarred cortex (i0, i-IFTA1).

I1_I-IFTA1 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 10-25% of non-scarred cortex and 10-25% of scarred cortex(i1, i-IFTA1).

I2_I-IFTA1 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 25-50% of non-scarred cortex and 10-25% of scarred cortex(i2, i-IFTA1).

I3_I-IFTA1 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects >50% of non-scarred cortex and 10-25% of scarred cortex (i3, i-IFTA1).

I0_I-IFTA2 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects <10% of non-scarred cortex and 25-50% of scarred cortex (i0, i-IFTA2).

I1_I-IFTA2 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 10-25% of non-scarred cortex and 25-50% of scarred cortex (i1, i-IFTA2).

I2_I-IFTA2 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 25-50% of non-scarred cortex and 25-50% of scarred cortex (i2, i-IFTA2).

I3_I-IFTA2 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects >50% of non-scarred cortex and 25-50% of scarred cortex (i3, i-IFTA1).

I0_I-IFTA3 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects <10% of non-scarred cortex and >50% of scarred cortex (i0, i-IFTA3).

I1_I-IFTA3 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 10-25% of non-scarred cortex and >50% of scarred cortex (i1, i-IFTA3).

I2_I-IFTA3 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects 25-50% of non-scarred cortex and >50% of scarred cortex (i2, i-IFTA3).

I3_I-IFTA3 There is a chronic interstitial inflammatory infiltrate, that affects >50% of non-scarred cortex and >50% of scarred cortex (i3, i-IFTA3).

TI0 Total cortical interstitial inflammation amount to <10% of cortex (ti0).

TI1 Total cortical interstitial inflammation amount to 10-25% of cortex (ti1).

TI2 Total cortical interstitial inflammation amount to 25-50% of cortex (ti2).

TI3 Total cortical interstitial inflammation amount to >50% of cortex (ti3).

BLOOD VESSELS

Ax x arteries are present in the sampled kidney.

xIL_xAr x are interlobular, x are arcuate.

CV0 Arteries show no fibrointimal thickening (cv0).

CV1 Arteries show mild fibrointimal thickening (cv1).

CV2 Arteries show moderate fibrointimal thickening (cv2).

CV3 Arteries show severe fibrointimal thickening (cv3).

CAA0 No features of chronic allograft arteriopathy are present.

CAA1 Features of chronic allograft arteriopathy (inflammatory cells in the thickened intima and/or lack of elastic lamina reduplication) are present.

V0 No endarteritis (v0).

V1 Mild endarteritis is seen (v1).

V2 Moderate endarteritis is seen (v2).

V3 Severe endarteritis is present (v3).

ah0 No arteriolar hyalinosis (ah0).

ah1 Mild arteriolar hyalinosis (ah1).

ah2 Moderate arteriolar hyalinosis (ah2).

ah3 Severe arteriolar hyalinosis (sh3).

ptc0 Peritubular capillary inflammation is present in <10% of cortical peritubular capillaries (ptc0).

ptc1 Peritubular capillary inflammation with a maximum of 3-4 cells is present in >10% of cortical peritubular capillaries (ptc1).

ptc2 Peritubular capillary inflammation with a maximum of 9 cells is present in >10% of cortical peritubular capillaries (ptc2).

ptc3 Peritubular capillary inflammation with 10 or more cells is present in >10% of cortical peritubular capillaries (ptc3).

 

IMMUNOHISTOCHEMISTRY

Immunoperoxidase:

C4d0 C4d: negative (C4d0)

C4d1 C4d: positive in 10-25% of PTC (C4d1)

C4d2 C4d: positive in 25-50% of PTC (C4d2)

C4d3 C4d: positive in >50% of PTC (C4d3)

SV40_0 SV40: negative

SV40_1 SV40: positive nuclear staining in a small number of tubules.

SV40_2 SV40: positive nuclear staining in many tubules.

IFP Immunofluorescence was performed on paraffin sections after protease digestion.

ELECTRON MICROSCOPY

EM_0 No sample for EM - remove section B

EM0 Ultrastructural examination was not performed.

EM1 Ultrastructural examination was performed.

TB Toluidine blue sections from the sample for electron microscopy were examined.

LM (reported by Dr Linda Moran)

HB (reported by Dr Heather Brooks)

IMMUNOFLUORESCENCE (FROZEN)

FR_0 No frozen sample - remove section C.

FR0 Frozen sampled received but not examined

 

CONCLUSION

ATI Acute tubular injury

ATI_micro Acute tubular injury with tubular epithelial cell cytoplasmic microvacuolation

BL Borderline for T cell-mediated rejection

CATCMR1a Chronic active T cell-mediated rejection (grade 1a)

TCMR1a T cell-mediated rejection grade 1a

TCMR1b T cell-mediated rejection grade 1b

MildIFTA Mild interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy

ModIFTA Moderate interstitial fibrosis/tubular atrophy

MVI+ Microcirculation inflammation present, C4d-negative, DSA-negative

COMMENT

EM The electron microscopy component of this report is not currently UKAS accredited due to a change in equipment.

DP This case was reported using the Digital Pathology Whole Slide Acquisition. The laboratory is not UKAS accredited for this test.

NR There is no evidence of rejection.

SC? The cause for the scarring is not apparent.

NRNR There is no evidence of rejection or of recurrent disease.

CR? The cause for the recent rise in creatinine is not clear.

CRSUB? The cause for the suboptimal creatinine is not clear.

FSGS In the post-transplant setting, glomerular segmental sclerosis can be recurrence of primary FSGS or, more commonly, a glomerular pattern developed secondary to a number of glomerular insults. Careful clinic-pathological correlation is needed to distinguish these.

A history of (or evocative of) primary FSGS in the development of ESRF, early post-transplant development of new onset proteinuria, and extensive foot process effacement of epithelial cells would favour recurrent primary FSGS.

Late post-transplant development of new onset proteinuria, previous or concurrent significant glomerular or tubulointerstitial disease of a different nature (e.g. alloimmune), as well as segmental foot process effacement favour secondary adaptive FSGS.

Late post-transplant development of new onset proteinuria, previous or concurrent significant glomerular or tubulointerstitial disease of a different nature (e.g. alloimmune), as well as segmental foot process effacement favour secondary adaptive FSGS. This can be seen in association with reduction of functioning nephrons, increased haemodynamic stress on a normal nephron population, or in association with some infections (e.g. HIV) and drugs (including CNI and heroin use).

In this case, the features overall favour...

Mb This membranous glomerulonephritis could represent recurrent primary disease. However, de novo membranous has also been described in association with DSA and the usual causes, such as malignancies and infections.

ATI micro Tubular epithelial microvacuolation is not specific but has been described in acute CNI toxicity. Other associations include IVIG, plasma expanders and radiolabeled contrast media.

UTI In view of the neutrophilic tubulitis, please exclude a urinary tract infection.

i-IFTA There is marked inflammation in scarred areas of cortex, without other features of rejection. Please consider possible causes, such as chronic obstruction/pyelonephritis, poor perfusion or previous BK nephropathy or rejection (T cell or antibody-mediated). Please check for a DSA.

AH Possible causes for arteriolar hyalinosis include donor-derived hyalinosis , chronic CNI toxicity, diabetes or hypertension.

ABOi There is positive staining for C4d in peritubular capillaries, as is often observed in ABOi grafts.

C4d WER There is positive staining for C4d in peritubular capillaries in the absence of histological features of antibody-mediated rejection – the significance of this finding is not known. Please correlate with serum DSA levels.

pAMR In the context of circulating DSA, individual lesions of MVI (g, ptc, v, acute TMA, cg, ptcml) below the histological threshold for MVI (g+ptc<2) and in the absence of C4d deposition in peritubular capillaries, probably indicate antibody activity. This phenotype can be diagnosed in patients with normal or abnormal kidney function. Depending on the clinical context, antibody-targeted treatment could be considered. Further research is necessary to determine the prevalence, impact, and best treatment for this phenotype.

MVI+ MVI above the histological threshold, without circulating DSA and with negative C4d staining in peritubular capillaries has been observed in patients with normal or abnormal kidney function. This is a purely descriptive phenotype, and the cause remains unclear. Further research is necessary to determine the prevalence, the causes and related biological processes and best treatment for this pattern. These cases may represent alloreactive T cell mediated responses; autoreactive or alloreactive non-HLA antibodies; primary NK cell activation through missing self; viral infection; other mechanisms of innate immune activation; ischemia reperfusion injury, etc.

TMA In view of the presence of TMA, in addition to AMR, other potential triggers (including transplant, infection, drugs, malignancy, paraprotein, pregnancy, etc) and underlying etiologies (genetic or metabolic) should be considered and standard nom